# Assignment1

Author: Vegard Brestad
Student Number: 140698

Description of the Application

The application I have made is an attempt at the example that was given to us in the assignment 1 text. The app is a simple application using the Google Maps API for displaying the user location, and SQLite for storing the historical records of the user location in the form of latitude and longitude. When opening the app, the user is greeted by a background with two buttons, these buttons are “Press here to see your location” and “Location Log”.  When the “Press here to see your location” button is pressed, it takes the user to another activity where a map is displayed with a marker for where the user is located. This is done using Google Maps API and a fragment displaying the map. Upon entering this activity, the current latitude and longitude is saved using SQLite. In this user location activity, there is another button that the user can press called “Location details” that opens up a PopupWindow. This PopupWindow was supposed to display details about the current user location such as city, temperature and coordinates, but I was not able to implement this feature. If we go back to the main screen/activity, we have the “Location log” button that when pushed opens up an alertdialog with all the coordinates that the user has visited by using the “Press here to see your location button”. This is everything that I managed to accomplish with my limited knowledge, as well some good help from friends. 

Discussion of the use of stored data when restarting from shutdown.

When restarting from shutdown the data from the previous session is usually not stored. To prevent this data from being lost, we have to use some sort of database or other temporary data storage to keep our files after shutdown. One way to do this is by using a database engine like SQLite that enables you to store user data, which means the data will still be there after app shutdown. SQLite is used in this app, and has enabled me to store historical user data past shutdown. This means you don’t have to worry about losing your data because of a crash, or a regular shutdown.


Discussion of the difference between native Apps and web Apps, with reference to the application developed 
Source on native: http://searchsoftwarequality.techtarget.com/definition/native-application-native-app
Source on web: http://searchsoftwarequality.techtarget.com/definition/Web-application-Web-app 
In the world of mobile development, the difference between native app and web app is something you need to be aware of. In most cases you usually have to make a choice on which development route you want to go, and the choice boils down to if you just want a web product that is mobile “friendly” or if you are going to invest in developing a mobile application. 

A native app is an application program that has been written specifically for a platform, which means you can take advantage of operating system features and other software that the platform you are developing on typically uses. Within a native app you have the ability to use device-specific hardware and software, which means you can utilize all the latest technology available on mobile devices such as GPS and camera. The app made I made in this assignment is a native app, which is why I could easily take advantage of the GPS technology and build around it. Being able to use technology like this is why native apps have a small advantage over web apps. The native app is installed directly on the phone, and is downloaded from either a public or private app store

Unlike a native app, the web app is not installed on the phone, but is instead stored on a remote server and delivered over the Internet through a browser interface. Basically it’s an application that utilizes the web and web-browser to accomplish tasks over a network. Even though web and native apps share a lot of the same qualities, adapting web content to mobile devices through a UI on the web has some advantages like amount of time and money spent. If you build your website with a mobile friendly design, you may not need to build an app for your service, which means you get the best of both worlds. The negatives with the web app is of course that it won’t be able to take advantage of the technologies that a native app could have done. However, choosing between building a native app and a mobile app is like asking if you’d like spaghetti or pancakes for dinner, it depends on your taste and needs. Both of them offer different things, but they can both be used to achieve your goals. 
Explanation of how the app could be extended 
This is an app that you can continue developing in a multitude of directions, and it can be extended in nearly every single aspect. In an app today, the GPS and location sensor is included in some shape or form, whether it’s an app made for tracking your workouts or a dating app where you want to track other singles that are nearby. Considering this, my options for extending this app were limitless, but I have decided on an idea that utilizes my current code.
My app already knows the current location of the user and can place the user on the map, which means I have a good foundation for making a location-based app. Obviously. I also have a simple way of storing the location in SQLite, which means I could do some sort of check-in app where the user can travel to different places and save their current location. This could be extended into a game where the goal is to visit as many different locations as possible, and the user would be awarded with both achievements and points for visiting x amount of places, or for visiting a certain location. This is the gamification route, and is one of the ways the app could be extended.
The application could also be extended into a dating-app, as I mentioned in the beginning. The map and location functionality would be updated to also include every other user that have checked in nearby, which means there would be a map marker for every person in for example a 5km radius. This radius would be definable by the user. Every marker on the map would be clickable, and allow you to show interest in the person by sending a thumbs-up or something similar. If the person you showed interest for replied with a thumbs-up, the app would generate a marker at a coffee house or restaurant nearby where you could meet up, as well as a suggested time and date for the meet-up. The meet-up information generated by the app would be stored in the app, as well as in your phones calendar app. It would be like Tinder, but straight to the point.
The application could be extended into so many different things, the sky’s the limit. These are just two of my suggestions, but with a GPS location based app only your imagination can stop you, which is why this app is a great foundation for a beginner like me. The only problem is implementing it all, but that’s a part of the journey. 

